Add release notes for v9.1.0 release (#131953)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/release-notes/breaking-changes.md

:::

:::{dropdown} `skip_unavailable` now catches all remote cluster runtime errors in ES|QL
When `skip_unavailable` is set to `true`, ES|QL now treats all runtime errors from that cluster as non-fatal. Previously, this setting only applied to connectivity issues (i.e. when a cluster was unavailable).

**Impact:**
Errors such as missing indices on a remote cluster will no longer cause the query to fail. Instead, the cluster will appear in the response metadata as `skipped` or `partial`.

**Action:**
If your workflows rely on detecting remote cluster errors, review your use of `skip_unavailable` and adjust error handling as needed.

For more information, view [#128163](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/128163)
:::

Snapshot/Restore:

:::{dropdown} Upgrades `repository-s3` plugin to AWS SDK v2
The `repository-s3` plugin now uses AWS SDK v2 instead of v1, as AWS will deprecate SDK v1 before the end of Elasticsearch 8.19’s support period. The two SDKs differ in behavior, which may require updates to your configuration.

**Impact:**

> Existing `repository-s3` configurations may no longer be compatible. Notable differences in AWS SDK v2 include but not limited to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing `repository-s3` configurations may no longer be compatible. Notable differences in AWS SDK v2 include, but may not be limited to:
```

> - AWS SDK v2 requires users to specify the region to use for signing requests, or else to run in an environment in which it can determine the correct region automatically. The older SDK would try to determine the region based on the endpoint URL as specified with the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.endpoint` setting, together with other data drawn from the operating environment, and would ultimately fall back to `us-east-1` if no better value could be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AWS SDK v2 requires users to specify the region to use for signing requests, or else to run in an environment in which it can determine the correct region automatically. The older SDK used to determine the region based on the endpoint URL as specified with the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.endpoint` setting, together with other data drawn from the operating environment, and fell back to `us-east-1` if no better value was found.
```

I think switching from conditionals to past tense makes more sense when describing old behaviours vs new.

- AWS SDK v2 does not support the EC2 IMDSv1 protocol.
- AWS SDK v2 does not support the `com.amazonaws.sdk.ec2MetadataServiceEndpointOverride` system property.
- AWS SDK v2 does not permit specifying a choice between HTTP and HTTPS so the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.protocol` setting is deprecated and no longer has any effect.

> - AWS SDK v2 does not permit control over throttling for retries, so the the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.use_throttle_retries` setting is deprecated and no longer has any effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AWS SDK v2 does not permit control over throttling for retries, so the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.use_throttle_retries` setting is deprecated and no longer has any effect.
```

> - AWS SDK v2 requires the use of the V4 signature algorithm, so the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.signer_override` setting is deprecated and no longer has any effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AWS SDK v2 requires the use of the V4 signature algorithm, therefore, the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.signer_override` setting is deprecated and no longer has any effect.
```

- AWS SDK v2 does not support the `log-delivery-write` canned ACL.
- AWS SDK v2 counts 4xx responses differently in its metrics reporting.
- AWS SDK v2 always uses the regional STS endpoint, whereas AWS SDK v2 could use either a regional endpoint or the global `https://sts.amazonaws.com` one.

**Action:**
Test the upgrade in a non-production environment. Adapt your configuration to the new SDK functionality. This includes, but may not be limited to, the following items:

> - Specify the correct signing region using the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.region` setting on each node. {es} will try and determine the correct region based on the endpoint URL and other data drawn from the operating environment but cannot guarantee to do so correctly in all cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specify the correct signing region using the `s3.client.${CLIENT_NAME}.region` setting on each node. {es} will try to determine the correct region based on the endpoint URL and other data drawn from the operating environment, but might not do so correctly in all cases.
```
